Hello world, 

My name is Joe. With a name like that comes a lot of inherent baggage, particularly in the form of nicknames: ‘Joe Schmo’, ‘Fat Joe’ and, perhaps most commonly, ‘Average Joe’. Here and now, I set out to eradicate all of these as they apply to me, or rather: to annihilate the clear falsehoods, recognize and learn from the truths and change perspectives on the in-betweens, with respect to this Joe vs those Joes. 

I consider myself something of a renaissance man, as well as an aspiring polymath and omniglot (careful now, your modesty is showing!) Essentially, my life boils down to an intense curiosity of all things. I dream to see, experience and live in many places; to try, taste and indulge in all the flavors; to meet, love and have an impact on many, many people; to study, test, contemplate, collaborate on and conquer some of the world's biggest challenges. These aspirations alone should silence the 'Joe Schmo' allegations out there. 

And whilst a burning intellectual curiosity and passion for languages & culture have been constants in my life, a sense of contentment and happiness was evasive for about as long a time. I recognized this to be, in large part, a result of my self-image. 'Fat Joe' (not the rapper) was weighing me down—literally, figuratively and emotionally. Thus, in 2016, I set out to improve my daily habits, establish healthy routines and lose a bunch of LBs (Here’s a sampling of the stuff that helped.) So, Fat Joe, no more either. 

When you want to be fluent in at least 6 languages by the age of 30 and hope to have a hand in finding solutions for the world's big issues like how we power our lives, how we feed ourselves and how we inspire people to learn (i.e. by starting a reading renaissance)—with all of these #goals, you need to anticipate some sacrifices. So, insofar as 'Average Joe' is concerned, I expect to be average at some things. A lot of things. For example: I’m not sure I’ll ever dunk a basketball, ice skate very well, shoot under 90 on any golf course, be the best at anything/in any given discipline, speak Arabic perfectly, sit in meditation for a full session with no distractions, write anything in French professionally, or master my knife skills. But I will embrace being average—though, always strive for above-average—in just about all of these things. 


